Hey the stt_pipeline test  result is here. The problems or the errors are related to whisper beacuse there is no single entrypoint script that would trigger both the VAD STT and whisper server at url below.


WHISPER_URL      = "http://127.0.0.1:8080/inference"  # local Whisper server endpoint

Before giving any code just think how could we solve this problem which aligns to our program flow and architecture of the initial planned stt pipeline

6:50 PM

Let me read the uploaded files first before thinking through this.

Viewed 2 files

Viewed 2 files

Reading the new stt.py

Reading whisper_runtime2.py

Done

Now I have the full picture. Let me think through this properly before saying anything.

The core issue is an entrypoint gap, not a code bug. Here's the actual situation:

You have two separate, fully capable implementations sitting side by side:

whisper_runtime2.py — a complete, self-contained audio runtime. It owns the mic via PyAudio, runs WebRTC → ConversationalRuntime → Silero → WAV → Whisper HTTP → on_transcript callback. It has its own loop, its own state machine, its own Whisper call. It works standalone today. It even has the on_transcript hook already wired.

vad_service.py — the architecture's intended VAD layer. Uses sounddevice instead of PyAudio, same WebRTC+Silero pipeline, but its STT step is inline Google SR rather than Whisper, and it's coupled to the Node WebSocket before the mic even opens.

stt.py — WhisperSTT and SpeechToTextEngine exist here, fully implemented, but neither vad_service.py nor whisper_runtime2.py imports from it. It's a fully built component floating with no callers.

pandora_launcher.py — defines on_transcript which does the right thing (Rust intent → executor → TTS), but passes it to nobody.

So the actual problem is: you have all the right pieces, none of them are connected to each other. The test failures are a symptom of this, not a root cause.

The solution that fits your architecture cleanly is: whisper_runtime2.py becomes the audio capture layer, its on_transcript callback receives the transcript and passes it directly into pandora_launcher.py's on_transcript handler, and WhisperSTT from stt.py replaces the inline _transcribe() function in whisper_runtime2.py so there's a single Whisper call path. The Node WebSocket dependency in vad_service.py gets decoupled so the mic opens independently of whether Node is running — the WS becomes an optional event emitter, not a gate.